readme.md, before:

# AI Talkmaster

AI Talkmaster is a server for creating engaging conversations using large language models. AI Talkmaster was developed for presentation at the [Open Simulator Community Conference 2025](https://conference.opensimulator.org/). AI Talkmaster was designed to be usable from within virtual worlds, first and foremost the [OpenSimulator environment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenSimulator). AI Talkmaster provides several interfaces for creating conversations using open-source or proprietary (OpenAI) large language models. The large language models can be instructed to behave in many different ways, for example they can behave like an oracle, an actor in a theater play or a debate participant. 

Although the powerful large language models of OpenAI can be used in AI Talkmaster it is important to note that their behaviour is not comparable to ChatGPT. ChatGPT and other online assistants have additional add-ons, such as live online search.

AI Talkmaster is open-source, we provide [instructions for hosting your own instance](./hosting_aitalkmaster.md).
We are also hosting 2 instances for public use.


# Hosted AI Talkmaster

We host 2 Instances of AI Talkmaster at https://hg.hypergrid.net, one using open-source exclusively and another using OpenAI exclusively. We are hosting the 2 instances for public use until 2026, then we might shutdown the OpenAI instance.

They are running on the same domain at different ports:

| Instance | Open-Source | OpenAI |
|----------|------------|--------|
| AI Talkmaster URL | https://hg.hypergrid.net:6000 | https://hg.hypergrid.net:7000 |
| Icecast Stream URL http | http://hg.hypergrid.net:6010/ait/stream/{join_key} | http://hg.hypergrid.net:7010/ait/stream/{join_key} |
| [Daily Usage Limit](#daily-usage-limit) | 1.000.000 Tokens per IP | 100.000 Tokens per IP |

The scripts in [lsl-scripts](./lsl-scripts/) use the Open-Source instance, see ait_endpoint variable.

# Information for using AI Talkmaster and LSL-Scripts in-world



How to use the LSL-Scripts in-world:
1. select a script and place it on an object that you own
   - modify the ait_endpoint variable if you want (to your own AIT server or a [hosted AI Talkmaster](hosted-ai-talkmaster))
2. place the notecards on the object
   - the script will tell you which notecards are required
   - the script will validate the content of the notecards
3. click on the object to start using it

As an alternative to step 1 and 2, you can import demo objects from [opensim-demo-objects](./opensim-demo-objects/). 


There are a three kinds of interactions with the large language models: Generate, Conversation and AI Talkmaster. 
Generate and Conversation are precursors of the multi-character conversations of AI Talkmaster. Generate replies to each message with a single message without keeping a history or extended context. Conversation allows for a back-and-forth with many consecutive messages that share a history/context.
The AI Talkmaster conversations go a step further and allow many participants to be a part of the conversation. Furthermore the AI Talkmaster conversations are converted to a live [audio-stream](#audio-stream).

There are example scripts for generating objects that interact with the AI Talkmaster server in the [lsl-scripts directory](./lsl-scripts/).
The scripts require a few different notecards to be present as parameterization of the scripts. The scripts validate the parameters on reset.

| Conversation Type | Generate | Conversation | AI Talkmaster |
|----------|------|------------|------|
| Description | Single response (no history) | Conversation with History | Conversation with history, multiple chracters possible, audio stream available |
| Script Name | Generate.lsl | Conversation.lsl | ait_character.lsl |
| Required Notecards | llm-system, llm-parameters | llm-system, llm-parameters | llm-system, llm-parameters, join_key |


## Notecard details

### llm-system

This notecard contains the system-instruction for the large language models. This is natural language text that describes how the large language model should reply. For example the llmsystem notecard could contain the following:

```
You are the famous Oracle of Delphi from ancient Greece. Reply as if you are talking to a traveller from a far away land.
```

### llm-parameters

This notecard contains all other parameters for the character and parameterization of the large language model requests (when using [Ollama](https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/docs/modelfile.md#parameter)).

An [example notecard](lsl-scripts/llm-parameters.notecard) is located in the lsl-scripts directory. 

The following parameters are only used/required with the AI Talkmaster endpoints when generating an audio stream:
* audio_model
* audio_instructions
* audio_voice

### join_key

This notecard is only required for the AI Talkmaster conversations (multi-character conversations with history and audio streaming).
The notecard contains one value alone, this is called the join_key and is used as an identifier for the conversation.
It is also used in the URL of the [audio stream](#audio-stream).


# Server Description

The AI Talkmaster server provides three kinds of AI conversations, that can be used from OpenSimulator.
The scripts in [lsl-scripts](./lsl-scripts/) can be used to interact with the three different kinds of AI conversation.s.

There are 3 different postMessage endpoints for generating text, these requests start the generation of text using large language models. This generation may take a few seconds or even minutes, depending on the selected models and requests themselves. Long response times lead to timeouts (about 30 seconds in OpenSimulator and 60 seconds in [LSL](https://wiki.secondlife.com/wiki/LlHTTPRequest#Caveats)). The getMessageResponse endpoints can be used to get the generated result when the postMessage call reaches a timeout.


## Server Endpoints

### Status & Configuration
- `GET /statusAitalkmaster` - Server status check
- `GET /chatmodels` - Get available chat models
- `GET /audio_models` - Get available audio models/voices

### Generate (no history)

- `POST /generate/postMessage` - Generate response without history
- `GET /generate/getMessageResponse` - Get generated response

### Conversation (with history)

- `POST /conversation/start` - Start new conversation
- `POST /conversation/postMessage` - Send message to conversation
- `GET /conversation/getMessageResponse` - Get response from conversation

### AI Talkmaster
Chat with (multiple) AI characters.

- `POST /ait/postMessage` - Send message to AI instance
- `GET /ait/getMessageResponse` - Get AI response
- `POST /ait/startConversation` - Start Conversation (and Audio stream) (it is not required to call this before postMessage or generateAudio)
- `POST /ait/resetJoinkey` - Reset AI instance (history)
- `POST /ait/generateAudio` - Generate audio from text
- `GET /ait/stream/{join_key}` - Stream for OpenSim region audio or VLC Media Player's Network stream

#### Audio Stream

AI Talkmaster conversations can be streamed to Icecast. Calls to /ait/startConversation, /ait/resetJoinkey and /ait/generateAudio return the URL of the audio stream.


This stream URL can be set as audio source for parcel sound in OpenSimulator regions:

![OpenSimulator Region Audio](./about/parcel_sound_music_url.JPG)


Depending on the AI Talkmaster server configuration, the audio is generated using Kokoro TTS or OpenAI. There are voice demos available online at:
- [Kokoro TTS](https://huggingface.co/spaces/hexgrad/Kokoro-TTS)
- [OpenAI](https://www.openai.fm/)


## Server return codes

- 200 All good, response is returned
- 400 Bad Request
- 401 Undefined Endpoint
- 422 Request data could not be processed, e.g. wrongly named parameters in json data
- 425 Too Early, this is returned by getMessageResponse when the response is not yet generated
- 500 internal error, the server owner/programmer has to fix something

Commit message:

rename AIT Speaker to AIT microphone

readme.md, after:

# AI Talkmaster

AI Talkmaster is a server for creating engaging conversations using large language models. AI Talkmaster was developed for presentation at the [Open Simulator Community Conference 2025](https://conference.opensimulator.org/). AI Talkmaster was designed to be usable from within virtual worlds, first and foremost the [OpenSimulator environment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenSimulator). AI Talkmaster provides several interfaces for creating conversations using open-source or proprietary (OpenAI) large language models. The large language models can be instructed to behave in many different ways, for example they can behave like an oracle, an actor in a theater play or a debate participant. 

Although the powerful large language models of OpenAI can be used in AI Talkmaster it is important to note that their behaviour is not comparable to ChatGPT. ChatGPT and other online assistants have additional add-ons, such as live online search.

AI Talkmaster is open-source, we provide [instructions for hosting your own instance](./hosting_aitalkmaster.md).
We are also hosting 2 instances for public use.


# Hosted AI Talkmaster

We host 2 Instances of AI Talkmaster at https://hg.hypergrid.net, one using open-source exclusively and another using OpenAI exclusively. We are hosting the 2 instances for public use until 2026, then we might shutdown the OpenAI instance.

They are running on the same domain at different ports:

| Instance | Open-Source | OpenAI |
|----------|------------|--------|
| AI Talkmaster URL | https://hg.hypergrid.net:6000 | https://hg.hypergrid.net:7000 |
| Icecast Stream URL http | http://hg.hypergrid.net:6010/ait/stream/{join_key} | http://hg.hypergrid.net:7010/ait/stream/{join_key} |
| [Daily Usage Limit](#daily-usage-limit) | 1.000.000 Tokens per IP | 100.000 Tokens per IP |

The scripts in [lsl-scripts](./lsl-scripts/) use the Open-Source instance, see ait_endpoint variable.

# Information for using AI Talkmaster and LSL-Scripts in-world


How to use the LSL-Scripts in-world:
1. select a script and place it on an object that you own
   - modify the ait_endpoint variable if you want (to your own AIT server or a [hosted AI Talkmaster](hosted-ai-talkmaster))
2. place the notecards on the object
   - the script will tell you which notecards are required
   - the script will validate the content of the notecards
3. click on the object to start using it

As an alternative to step 1 and 2, you can import demo objects from [opensim-demo-objects](./opensim-demo-objects/). 


There are a three kinds of interactions with the large language models: Generate, Conversation and AI Talkmaster. 
Generate and Conversation are precursors of the multi-character conversations of AI Talkmaster. Generate replies to each message with a single message without keeping a history or extended context. Conversation allows for a back-and-forth with many consecutive messages that share a history/context.
The AI Talkmaster conversations go a step further and allow many participants to be a part of the conversation. Furthermore the AI Talkmaster conversations are converted to a live [audio-stream](#audio-stream).

| Conversation Type | Generate | Conversation | AI Talkmaster |
|----------|------|------------|------|
| Description | Single response (no history) | Conversation with History | Conversation with history, multiple characters possible, audio stream available |
| Script Name | Generate.lsl | Conversation.lsl | ait_character.lsl |
| Required Notecards | llm-system, llm-parameters | llm-system, llm-parameters | llm-system, llm-parameters, join_key |

There are example scripts that interact with the AI Talkmaster server in the [lsl-scripts directory](./lsl-scripts/). The Generate.lsl, Conversation.lsl and ait_character.lsl scripts are used to define AI characters. The ait_microphone.lsl script adds the owner's messages to the AI Talkmaster conversation's [audio-stream](#audio-stream).
The scripts require a few different notecards to be present as parameterization of the scripts. The scripts validate the parameters on reset.




## Notecard details

### llm-system

This notecard contains the system-instruction for the large language models. This is natural language text that describes how the large language model should reply. For example the llmsystem notecard could contain the following:

```
You are the famous Oracle of Delphi from ancient Greece. Reply as if you are talking to a traveller from a far away land.
```

### llm-parameters

This notecard contains all other parameters for the character and parameterization of the large language model requests (when using [Ollama](https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/docs/modelfile.md#parameter)).

An [example notecard](lsl-scripts/llm-parameters.notecard) is located in the lsl-scripts directory. 

The following parameters are only used with the AI Talkmaster endpoints when generating an audio stream:
* audio_model
* audio_instructions
* audio_voice

### join_key

This notecard is only required for the AI Talkmaster conversations (multi-character conversations with history and audio streaming).
The notecard contains one value alone, this is called the join_key and is used as an identifier for the conversation.
It is also used in the URL of the [audio stream](#audio-stream).


# Server Description

The AI Talkmaster server provides three kinds of AI conversations, that can be used from OpenSimulator.
The scripts in [lsl-scripts](./lsl-scripts/) can be used to interact with the three different kinds of AI conversation.s.

There are 3 different postMessage endpoints for generating text, these requests start the generation of text using large language models. This generation may take a few seconds or even minutes, depending on the selected models and requests themselves. Long response times lead to timeouts (about 30 seconds in OpenSimulator and 60 seconds in [LSL](https://wiki.secondlife.com/wiki/LlHTTPRequest#Caveats)). The getMessageResponse endpoints can be used to get the generated result when the postMessage call reaches a timeout.


## Server Endpoints

### Status & Configuration
- `GET /statusAitalkmaster` - Server status check
- `GET /chatmodels` - Get available chat models
- `GET /audio_models` - Get available audio models/voices

### Generate (no history)

- `POST /generate/postMessage` - Generate response without history
- `GET /generate/getMessageResponse` - Get generated response

### Conversation (with history)

- `POST /conversation/start` - Start new conversation
- `POST /conversation/postMessage` - Send message to conversation
- `GET /conversation/getMessageResponse` - Get response from conversation

### AI Talkmaster
Chat with (multiple) AI characters.

- `POST /ait/postMessage` - Send message to AI instance
- `GET /ait/getMessageResponse` - Get AI response
- `POST /ait/startConversation` - Start Conversation (and Audio stream) (it is not required to call this before postMessage or generateAudio)
- `POST /ait/resetJoinkey` - Reset AI instance (history)
- `POST /ait/generateAudio` - Generate audio from text
- `GET /ait/stream/{join_key}` - Stream for OpenSim region audio or VLC Media Player's Network stream

#### Audio Stream

AI Talkmaster conversations can be streamed to Icecast. Calls to /ait/startConversation, /ait/resetJoinkey and /ait/generateAudio return the URL of the audio stream.


This stream URL can be set as audio source for parcel sound in OpenSimulator regions:

![OpenSimulator Region Audio](./about/parcel_sound_music_url.JPG)


Depending on the AI Talkmaster server configuration, the audio is generated using Kokoro TTS or OpenAI. There are voice demos available online at:
- [Kokoro TTS](https://huggingface.co/spaces/hexgrad/Kokoro-TTS)
- [OpenAI](https://www.openai.fm/)


## Server return codes

- 200 All good, response is returned
- 400 Bad Request
- 401 Undefined Endpoint
- 422 Request data could not be processed, e.g. wrongly named parameters in json data
- 425 Too Early, this is returned by getMessageResponse when the response is not yet generated
- 500 internal error, the server owner/programmer has to fix something
